There is no matching the speed of innovation and advancement in the field of computer science
 and technology today. The more you try to learn, the more there is to learn and discover. With
 new upgrades happening everyday and with ongoing research and development in the field,
 there is an infinite scope for growth. I am intrigued by new software applications that are coming
 in the market everyday to ease personal and professional lives. I want to learn about the
 emerging technologies and their usage in the modern day volatile world. With some background
 knowledge and experience already in the field, I feel prepared to study more in order to scale up
 mycareer to greater heights. Thus, I seek to pursue a Master of Science in Computer Science.
 I completed my bachelor's degree in Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science and
 Engineering from Keshav Memorial Institute of Technology. Ever since my school years, I had a
 profound interest in computer science and also learned programming, application development
 and game development in my school years just on preset templates. This ignited my passion
 further for the field and led me to choosing a bachelor's degree in the same. My bachelor's
 degree further defined my interest by giving me knowledge in areas like Computer Programming
 in C, Data structures through C++, Computer Organization, Object Oriented Programming with
 Java, Database Management Systems, Software Engineering, Web Technologies, Information
 Technology, Data Mining etc. All of these subjects thoroughly excited me and also made me
 more aware of the interdisciplinary nature of the field wherein everything is used in order to
 create cutting edge solutions for varied requirements.
 The classroom engagement turned into experience as we worked on several projects and
 applied the concepts learnt. I worked on a project using Machine learning for Car Sales in
 Norway. I was the team lead in the project and we performed regression analysis with pre
processing of data for the proposed results. The project was aimed at predicting the number of
 cars that would be sold in the coming years depending on various input features. Predictive
 modeling and regression analysis are used extensively today for applications and this project
 heightened my passion in the same. I worked on another project where I built a web application
 for Fest Management using Servlets and HTML. We designed the whole platform features like
 student login and registration pages. I also worked on the front-end and backend development.
 This project was done during the Virtusa hackathon and the aim of the web portal was to
 manage the fest by getting student registrations.
 My rising interest in software development for healthcare and analytics led me to completing a
 project for Breast Cancer Prediction. Here, I worked with Machine Learning algorithms. I was
 again the team lead and was required to carry out the pre-processing of data and model fitting.
 The designed project was built to analyse different parameters and predict whether the person
 was suffering from breast cancer or not. Next, I wanted to diversify my portfolio with varied
 technology uses and understanding. So, I worked on a project for Customer Score Calculation
 where I gained proficiency in Node JS, MySQL, HTML and CSS. This project involved Database
 Management and here, we built a web application that could take the previous data of
 customers regarding their loans and credit management potential and evaluate the data in order
 to determine whether to sanction the loan or not. Machine learning has been a field that has
 captivated me immensely. Thus, I worked on another project for Sentiment Analysis of Code
Mixed languages. Here, we made use of natural language processing. The designed application
 was aimed at finding or evaluating the sentiment in Code-Mixed languages using Hindi and
 English languages. The detected sentiment from the text would be displayed to the user in the
 category as positive, negative or neutral.
 During my bachelor's education, I also completed an internship which helped me take a dive
 into the real professional world of developers. I worked as an Intern at ADTRAN Networks India
 Private Ltd for 4 months. Here, I gained insight into the software development process, front end
 development, Technologies used, interface building, backend processes etc. It was quite
 interesting and also fascinating to learn about how software applications are built to become so
 useful for the end user.
 I have grown my acumen and aptitude even more through additional courses and certifications
 in order to build my skill set. I did a certificate course in Machine Learning by SONET and an
 Introduction To Machine Learning course by NPTEL. I also completed the 12 week Joy of
 Computing program by NPTEL. I also have a certification in Social Networks by NPTEL. These
 courses added to my curiosity and interest and also helped me add to my intellect. My keen
 interest for computers and technology is exhibited in my achievements as well where I have
 secured a good rank in the HackerEarth platform in the Basic Programming category and have
 achieved the 2417 rank in CodeVita Season 8 out of 55,654 participants.
 My personality was further defined through other engagements and activities in school and
 college where I made my mark. I was the President of the drama club in our college and gave
 multiple memorable and praiseworthy stage performances particularly at the stand-up comedy
 events. My mental horizons are maintained sharply given my interest in chess. I have won many
 district level chess tournaments during my school days.
 I am currently Working as a Senior Officer at DBS Asia Hub 2 Private Ltd. I have worked on
 their Payment Engine as a full stack developer. Through my work experience over the last 1.5
 years, I have gained proficiency in multiple technologies and gained insights into the entire
 application development cycle. I have also mentored and supervised new team members. Now,
 I want to take my learning and experience to the next level by pursuing higher education where I
 will gain a more detailed understanding of the field. Given the everyday innovations, I want to
 stay abreast of the latest technologies and trends in the industry. Moreover, this is a field that
 requires constant learning and self growth to match the changing needs of the market. Thus, I
 believe that it's the right time to pursue a Master's course which will take me to the next level in
 myeducational and professional journey.
 The Master’s course in Computer Science is something perfectly aligned with my future
 interests. I wish to pursue this course as it will allow me to enhance my knowledge in computer
 science. It will also expose me to the depths of the concepts which I have only scraped so far. In
 future, I wish to run my own software company and this course will play a key role in laying the
 foundation for achieving this goal. The course will expose me to deeply embedded learning of
 advanced concepts in machine learning, artificial intelligence, software development, operating
systems, data mining, artificial intelligence etc. These streams of knowledge will help me in
 moving forward in my career and prepare me to contribute significantly to today’s technological
 advancements.
 The university of _____________ is the ideal choice for me to pursue this course. I believe that
 my journey has provided me with an increased level of maturity, discipline, and expertise in
 many fields, which will allow me to thrive in the field of Computer Science. The dynamic and
 talented faculty will make my learning experience a memorable one. I also look forward to
 gaining from valuable exchanges with fellow students in my department. As someone with
 qualities of diligence, innovative thinking and leadership, I am sure to be a great asset to the
 university and my peers too. I am certain this university is the perfect fit for me and I will be a
 value addition to the university as well.